LVCSP TC Meeting Notes V2

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Meeting date:               October 24, 2023
  --------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Meeting chair:              Alan Bachmann

  Meeting notes:              Don Sheppard
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

+------+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| #    | Agenda Item                              | Meeting Notes                                                                           |
+======+==========================================+=========================================================================================+
| 1    | Call to order                            | Quorum: yes                                                                             |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          | Alan Bachmann (Chair), Abbie Barbir (Secretary),                                        |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          | Don Sheppard (Editor), Stefan Hagen (Editor)                                            |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          | Chris Dotson, Spencer Yezo, Hiroshi Takechi, Charles Hart - Members                     |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          | PLEASE CHECK FOR COMPLETENESS.                                                          |
+------+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 2    | Approval of agenda                       | Approved – no detailed agenda                                                           |
+------+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 3    | Approval of meeting notes                | October 10, 2023 - approved with no changes                                             |
+------+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 3.1  | Previous meeting actions                 | Action list not recorded                                                                |
+------+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 4    | Topic Discussions                        |                                                                                         |
+------+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 4.1  | Update from the editor                   | -   Don is now attending meetings - first 3 meetings were September 26, October 10 and  |
|      |                                          |     October 24                                                                          |
|      | (Don Sheppard)                           |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          | -   Don has reviewed the TC charter, scope and deliverables                             |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          | -   established email connections with the editor team (Don, Stefan and Michael)        |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          | -   quick review of available meeting minutes determined that the minutes were not very |
|      |                                          |     useful for compiling existing working agreements                                    |
+------+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|      |                                          | -   The editor’s initial reading so far suggests that the goal of the current work is   |
|      |                                          |     to provide one (1) document that:                                                   |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          |     + Specifies a schema for a VC that is issued after completion of an identity        |
|      |                                          |       verification process                                                              |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          |     + Provides a security analysis of the schema                                        |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          |     + Describes how an RP would verify the VC                                           |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          |     + Provides examples of use cases                                                    |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          | -   It was not yet clear to the editor what makes this “lightweight” – this could be    |
|      |                                          |     included in an introduction to the standard.                                        |
+------+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 4.2  | Review of current agreements             | Abbie provided a verbal summary of the TC working group’s prior agreements that are the |
|      |                                          | basis for the current work.                                                             |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          | See attached summary of agreed concepts and principles.                                 |
+------+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 4.3  | Motion                                   | The LVCSP TC requests the OASIS administration to create a GitHub repository            |
|      |                                          | https://github.com/oasis-tcs/lvcsp to manage LVSCP spec related work products           |
|      | Moved: Stefan Hagen                      | including schema files, specification prose, test files, minutes of meeting, issues,    |
|      |                                          | peer reviews, IANA requests and others.                                                 |
|      | Seconded: Abbie Barbir                   |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      | Approved                                 |                                                                                         |
+------+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 4.4  | Motion                                   | The LVSCP TC requests Stefan Hagen to submit the relevant form at                       |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      | Moved: Stefan Hagen                      | [[form_url]]                                                                            |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      | Seconded: Abbie Barbir                   |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          | such that OASIS administration can create the repository and enable the maintainers     |
|      | Approved                                 | access.                                                                                 |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          | The initial maintainer shall be Stefan Hagen.                                           |
+------+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 4.4  | CAMSKRA KYC form                         | Abbie introduced a sample KYC in-person form for individuals and reviewed the fields    |
|      |                                          | contained in the form.                                                                  |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          | Abbie stated that the group should examine this form and decide what items need to be   |
|      |                                          | included in the VC for LVCSP and be prepared to discuss in-depth at the next meeting.   |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          | We also looked at KYC samples from this site                                            |
|      |                                          | https://www.camsonline.com/Investors/Transactions/KYC/About-KYC                         |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          | See also                                                                                |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          | [[use_case_url]]                                                                        |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
+------+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 4.5  | Use cases for the standard               | Use cases were discussed briefly in relation to the KYC form (see 4.4).                 |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          | The proposed standard should include 3 use cases: General/Core, Healthcare, and         |
|      |                                          | Financial                                                                               |
+------+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 5    | Output - agreements                      | See below                                                                               |
+------+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 6    | Output - updated actions list            | See below                                                                               |
+------+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 7    | Next Meeting                             | November 7, 2023, at 0930 ET                                                            |
|      |                                          |                                                                                         |
|      |                                          | Note that time changes may have occurred.                                               |
+------+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 8    | Other business                           | None                                                                                    |
+------+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 9    | Close of meeting                         | Approved - Meeting ended at 1023 EDT                                                    |
+------+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

[form_url](https://www.oasis-open.org/project-administration-support-requests/form-request-a-tc-github-version-control-instance-be-created/)
[use_case_url](https://www.camsonline.com/Investors/Service-requests/Service-Request-Forms/CAMSKRA-KYC-Non-Individuals)


# Attachment 1

+=======+==========================================================================+========================+===============================+
| #     | Actions from the Meeting                                                 | Assigned to            | Status                        |
+-------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 1     | Stefan to submit form to OASIS admin to initiate GitHub request and      | Stefan Hagen           | Motion approved               |
|       | become maintainer                                                        |                        |                               |
+-------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 2     | OASIS admin to establish a GitHub repository                             | OASIS admin            |                               |
+-------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 3     | The WG should examine the CAMSKRA KYC form to decide what items need to  | All                    | For discussion on November    |
|       | be included in the VC for LVCSP and be prepared to discuss in-depth at   |                        | 7^(th)                        |
|       | the next meeting.                                                        |                        |                               |
|       |                                                                          |                        |                               |
|       | Members to consider the elements of the KYC VC using the CAMSKRA form as |                        |                               |
|       | a starting point.                                                        |                        |                               |
+-------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 4     | Don to publish the minutes of the meeting                                | Don Sheppard           | Prior to next meeting         |
+-------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+-------------------------------+

# Attachment 2

+=======+==========================================================================+========================+===============================+
| #     | Committee Agreements                                                     | Date Approved          | Status                        |
+-------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+-------------------------------+
| 1     | The standard will include 3 use cases: General/Core, Healthcare, and     | October 24             | Agreed                       |
|       | Financial.                                                               |                        |                               |
+-------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+-------------------------------+


# Attachment 3

+=======================+==========================================================================================+========================+
| #                     | Notes from Abbie Barbir - Agreement Review                                               | Status                 |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
| Verifiable Credential |                                                                                          |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | Start with JSON and will not use JSON-LD                                                 |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | Schema changes are not negotiable – credentials do not have optional elements            |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | Work with OpenID format                                                                  |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | Use cases will use JWT tokens                                                            |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | Base core schema is to be based on IANA                                                  |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | A meta decision is that you cannot trust the VC presenter                                |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | Atomic credentials/Oracle credentials are based on templates with the minimum number     |                        |
|                       | of attributes needed                                                                     |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | Assurance Level of the template will be based on OpenID – the Issuer will have           |                        |
|                       | levels 1,2 and 3                                                                         |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | Specifications from DIF include a Manifest and a Verifiable Presentation – LVCSP has     |                        |
|                       | dropped the Manifest as it will lead to complex claims and only needs to worry about     |                        |
|                       | the Verifiable Presentation                                                              |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | The anchor of trust is based on what the credential is used for – we are looking for     |                        |
|                       | the minimum viable solution                                                              |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | Our core assumption is that we will depend on trust in the Issuer                        |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | Elements in the core credential are specified and should be designed to work with 90%    |                        |
|                       | of the use cases                                                                         |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | If a required element is not in the credential, then the Issuer can attest it, and the   |                        |
|                       | Verifier can choose to accept the Issuer’s attestation – this simplifies the wallet      |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | What makes our proposed standard “lightweight”?                                          |                        |
|                       |                                                                                          |                        |
|                       | -   The credential has only the core elements                                            |                        |
|                       |                                                                                          |                        |
|                       | -   The wallet is not “heavy”                                                            |                        |
|                       |                                                                                          |                        |
|                       | -   We don’t need governance                                                             |                        |
|                       |                                                                                          |                        |
|                       | -   The subject (user?) should already have a DID                                        |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | Need to place emphasis on protecting PII – ask for the minimum information needed to do  |                        |
|                       | the job, not a full blown generic solution                                               |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | We won’t rely on meeting all the W3C needs                                               |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | We should allow a credential broker so that the Issuer cannot track all uses of the      |                        |
|                       | credential (refer to the ADIA spec.)                                                     |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
| Wallet                |                                                                                          |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | User wallet cannot be trusted to do anything except present a subset of its credentials. |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | Verifier will have restrictions and should not have to trust the user’s wallet           |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | The Verifier MUST not accept anything from the wallet except VC’s from the Issuer        |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | The wallet presents the VC to the Verifier                                               |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | PKI security is anchored on the wallet, but the wallet does not make changes to anything |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
| Know Your Customer    |                                                                                          |                        |
| (KYC) Use Case        |                                                                                          |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | There are 2 kinds of KYC – Individual and non-Individual                                 |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | KYC can be achieved in 2 ways – in-person and remote                                     |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | Credentials should say what process was used to determine KYC                            |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
|                       | The CAMSKRA for has 2 parts – the actual identity, and the proof of identity             |                        |
|                       |                                                                                          |                        |
|                       | (for example – residence address, and proof of residence)                                |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
