**LVCSP TC Meeting Minutes**

**Meeting date:** November 7, 2023

**1 Call to order**

*Quorum*: yes

*Attendees*: Alan Bachmann (Chair), Abbie Barbir (Secretary), Don Sheppard (Editor), Stefan Hagen (Editor), Chris Dotson, Spencer Yezo, Adar Weidman, Ryan Rowcliffe

**2 Approval of agenda**

Approved – no items added

**3 Approval of previous minutes**

Previous minutes approved as written

**3.1 Review of action items**

Actions from the previous meeting were reviewed:

1 Completed

2 Completed, the GiTHub repository has been established

3 Topic postponed until the next meeting (November 21)

**4 Topic Discussions**

**4.1 Update from the editor**

-   Stefan has established the GiTHub repository (see <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/lvcsp> )
-   An initial outline for the proposed document was published (V0.01) for consideration and discussion.
-   A second draft is available to be reviewed at this meeting (see next topic)

**4.2 Review of Initial Draft Outline (V0.03)**

The questions listed in the Initial Draft Outline (V0.03) were discussed with the following conclusions:

3 Q: Should our standard be self-sufficient or more like a “profile” based on W3C? Is an LVC a strict subset of W3C VC?

Answer: We should be consistent with the W3C and use the same definitions. There are, however, items we need to include that are not in the W3C Data Model. Our LVC schema will be used for simpler use cases.

4 Q: Are any other documents to be used as a basis for this document? (i.e., normative references)

Answer: Governance references are needed (to be updated ??)

5 Do we want to add any use cases or example material in this document?

Answer: Yes, use cases are needed and are to be included in the main text. Use cases will answer the “why” and “what” questions concerning the LVC schema.

The use cases will also be shown in the use cases.

6 Q: Are we developing a specific lightweight “Data Schema”, as defined in section 4.12 of W3C Data Model 2.0 ? Or is there more to our standard than that?

Answer: Our document will include more than just an equivalent to W3C Data Model section 4.12.

7 Q: What does “process” in the LVCSP title refer to? What do we need to describe in the standard for this? Do we want a section on the “process” component of LVCSP?

Answer: We need to describe how the process works in the governance model when using a lightweight VC. This includes constraints on the actors.

NOTE 1: In clause 6 of the outline, we should replace the term “differences” as we are intending to be consistent, not different.

NOTE 2: Appendix D should list official phase changes only, not every detailed change made to the content.

**4.3 KYC Form Review**

Abbie requested that this topic be deferred to the next meeting.

<https://www.camsonline.com/Investors/Service-requests/Service-Request-Forms/CAMSKRA-KYC-Non-Individuals>

**5 Meeting outputs**

**5.1 Motions approved**

No new Motions approved

**5.2 Agreements on topics**

No new Agreements were accepted.

**5.3 Actions arising from this meeting**

See list below

**6 Other business**

No other business

**7 Next meeting**

November 21, 2023, at 0930 ET

**8 Close of meeting**

Meeting ended at 11:00 EDT

**Attachment 1 Actions list as of November 7, 2023**

1.  The TWG members should examine the CAMSKRA KYC form to decide what items need to be included in the VC for LVCSP and be prepared to discuss in-depth at the next meeting. Members to consider the elements of the KYC VC using the CAMSKRA form as a starting point.
2.  Review and comment on the Initial Draft Outline (V0.03)

**Attachment 2 Consensus agreements list**

1.  The standard will include 3 use cases: General/Core, Healthcare, and Financial

**Attachment 3 Overview of basic principles (minor formatting updates)**

Editor’s Note: This attachment should be moved to a separate working document for the next meeting.

General assumptions

-   Start with JSON and will not use JSON-LD
-   Schema changes are not negotiable – credentials do not have optional elements
-   Work with OpenID format
-   Use cases will use JWT tokens
-   Base core schema is to be based on IANA
-   A meta decision is that you cannot trust the VC presenter
-   Atomic credentials/Oracle credentials are based on templates with the minimum number of attributes needed
-   Assurance Level of the template will be based on OpenID – the Issuer will have levels 1,2 and 3
-   Specifications from DIF include a Manifest and a Verifiable Presentation – LVCSP has dropped the Manifest as it will lead to complex claims and only needs to worry about the Verifiable Presentation
-   The anchor of trust is based on what the credential is used for – we are looking for the minimum viable solution
-   Our core assumption is that we will depend on trust in the Issuer
-   Elements in the core credential are specified and should be designed to work with 90% of the use cases
-   If a required element is not in the credential, then the Issuer can attest it, and the Verifier can choose to accept the Issuer’s attestation – this simplifies the wallet

“Lightweight-ness” assumptions

-   The credential has only the core elements
-   The wallet is not “heavy”
-   We don’t need governance
-   The subject (user?) should already have a DID
-   Need to place emphasis on protecting PII – ask for the minimum information needed to do the job, not a full blown generic solution
-   We won’t rely on meeting all the W3C needs
-   We should allow a credential broker so that the Issuer cannot track all uses of the credential (refer to the ADIA spec.)

Wallet assumptions

-   User wallet cannot be trusted to do anything except present a subset of its credentials.
-   Verifier will have restrictions and should not have to trust the user’s wallet
-   The Verifier MUST not accept anything from the wallet except VC’s from the Issuer
-   The wallet presents the VC to the Verifier
-   PKI security is anchored on the wallet, but the wallet does not make changes to anything

KYC assumptions

-   There are 2 kinds of KYC – Individual and non-Individual
-   KYC can be achieved in 2 ways – in-person and remote
-   Credentials should say what process was used to determine KYC
-   The CAMSKRA form has 2 parts – the actual identity, and the proof of identity (for example – residence address, and proof of residence)
